Inventor
Will the Clockwork men created by inventors in Zil ‘a Zan ever replace common workers? Critics are doubtful
The age of technology has carved a new niche for the entrepreneurial and quick witted in Kazar. As an inventor you have worked for years either in a workshop of your own or in a Trifecta run factory, working on innovating steam powered devices. This could be anything from hot water heating and plumbing to the development of new weaponry and Steam Singers. This has led to an innate understanding of how magic performed many of these tasks in the days before the Trifecta.
Personality Trait, Ideal, Bond and Flaw should somehow be linked to the colleagues and rivals you have encountered in your field of expertise and the ambition you hold for innovation or personal gain.
Skill Proficiencies: Arcana, Insight
Tool Proficiencies: One toolset of your choice
Language Proficiencies: Choose one
Equipment: One artisan toolset of your choice, a factory apron, magnifying glass, and a pouch containing 10 gp
Feature: Pride of the Trifecta: Steam and innovation is critical to the growth of the Trifectum, meaning their inventors are greatly valued. An inventor will be able to request feedback on their blueprints and products from the great universities in Soskni.

--------------------------------

Line Worker
The Line would never have been completed without the thousands of Line workers.
No effort in the history of Kazar has claimed as large a work force as the expansion of the fabled Line, stretching from Arc-Upon-High to Stormfyord. Thousands have been worked to the bone alongside its many stations and villages, entire local communities built around the hard but profitable work. As a Line Worker you belong to the blue collar society in Kazar, where hammer and steel are king.
Personality Trait, Ideal, Bond and Flaw should be linked to your time as a worker, part of a large collective, perhaps with a problematic relationship with a boss or the Trifecta Line Company.
Skill Proficiencies: Athletics, Survival
Tool Proficiencies: Vehicles (land)
Languages: Choose one: Elvish, Dwarvish, Orcish or Draconic
Equipment: A small hammer, the first copper coin you made or a similiar token, sweat stained common clothes, a contract proving you have contributed to the Line, heavy boots and a pouch containing 15 gp
Feature: Workers unite: The largest group in Kazar, Line Workers are not organized officially but always support their own, gladly hiding them from the law or other pursuers. You can seek shelter with working communities along the Line.

--------------------------------

Treesinger
A Treesinger belongs to a small, secluded society which seldom interacts with the world of technology on its doorstep
You have been raised in the most secluded forests of the Groves of Yonder in Kazar in a small commune, taught the ancient ways of the wood-elves. As a Treesinger you have spent your formative years communing with nature in solitude, trying to understand the The Yonderli and the nature they inhabit.
Personality Trait, Ideal, Bond and Flaw should somehow be linked to your time as a warden of the forests and the few, but important, encounters you have had along the way.
Skill Proficiencies: Nature, Perception
Tool Proficiencies: Woodcarver’s tools, one musical instrument of choice
Equipment: A musical instrument of choice, the bark of an ancient tree, 15 ft silken rope, and a pouch containing 14 gp (you left a gold piece by your favourite tree).
Feature: Friend of the Spirits: Your communion with nature in Yonder has raised your awareness of the ancient truths of the world. All wood-elves regard you with favour and you are permitted to enter druidic circles.

--------------------------------

Child of Industry
A Child of Industry has never known a world without steam and innovation
You have been born in the age of steam created by the Trifecta's innovations after the year 1 PT. You have never known a world without technology and thus are an adept in understanding the new society that has bloomed along the Line. You have lived close to the centre of innovation in Soskni, Yonder or Fyrrum.
Personality Trait, Ideal, Bond and Flaw should somehow be linked to your upbringing in a world where technology is king and magic is considered quaint and outdated.
Skill Proficiencies: History, Investigation
Languages: One of your choice
Tool Proficiencies: Tinker’s tools
Equipment: A mechanical watch, a set of Trifectian common clothes, and a pouch containing 15 gp
Feature: Knowledge of the world as it is: You have a close friend or relative who works in a field of innovation who can share with you the latest technological developments and the latest trends in Kazar.